.TH API-POST 1 "2026-06-03" "Mu2eTalks" "Mu2eTalks"
.SH NAME
api-post \- post JSON records to the Mu2eTalks API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./scripts/api-post.sh
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B api-post.sh
sends token-authenticated JSON
.B POST
requests to the Mu2eTalks application API.
.PP
The script supports the three create endpoints currently exposed by the
application:
.BR talks ,
.BR institutions ,
and
.BR conferences .
It can also post to an explicit API path for testing or future endpoints.
.PP
Authentication uses an API token created from the in-application
.B /api/
page. Tokens inherit the role of the user who created them. Create requests
require an Admin, Spokesperson, or IB Rep token.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-u " URL" ", " \-\-url " URL" ", " \-\-base-url " URL"
Base URL of the Mu2eTalks application.
.br
Default:
.B MU2E_TALKS_URL
or
.BR http://localhost:8000 .
.TP
.BI \-t " TOKEN" ", " \-\-token " TOKEN"
API token to send in the
.B Authorization: Bearer
header.
.br
Default:
.BR MU2E_API_TOKEN .
.TP
.BI \-\-token-file " FILE"
Read the API token from the first line of
.IR FILE .
.br
Default:
.BR MU2E_API_TOKEN_FILE .
.TP
.BI \-r " RESOURCE" ", " \-\-resource " RESOURCE"
Resource to create. Accepted values are
.BR talks ,
.BR institutions ,
and
.BR conferences .
Singular aliases are also accepted.
.TP
.BI \-p " PATH" ", " \-\-path " PATH"
Explicit API path to post to, overriding
.BR \-\-resource .
For example:
.BR /api/v1/talks/ .
.TP
.BI \-d " JSON" ", " \-\-data " JSON"
JSON request body supplied directly on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-f " FILE" ", " \-\-file " FILE"
Read the JSON request body from
.IR FILE .
.TP
.BI \-\-curl-args " ARGS"
Additional argument string passed to
.BR curl .
This is useful for diagnostics, for example
.BR "--include" .
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Print the target URL and request body without posting.
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the script help and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MU2E_TALKS_URL
Default base application URL.
.TP
.B MU2E_API_TOKEN
Default API token.
.TP
.B MU2E_API_TOKEN_FILE
Path to a file containing the API token.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a conference on the local development server:
.PP
.RS
.EX
MU2E_API_TOKEN=mu2e_... \&./scripts/api-post.sh \\
  --resource conferences \\
  --data '{"title":"Muon Physics 2027","start_date":"2027-06-01"}'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Create an institution from a JSON file against the OKD deployment:
.PP
.RS
.EX
\&./scripts/api-post.sh \\
  --url https://mu2e-talks.fnal.gov \\
  --token-file ~/.mu2e-talks-api-token \\
  --resource institutions \\
  --file institution.json
.EE
.RE
.PP
Create a talk:
.PP
.RS
.EX
\&./scripts/api-post.sh \\
  --url https://mu2e-talks.fnal.gov \\
  --token-file ~/.mu2e-talks-api-token \\
  --resource talks \\
  --data '{"talk_title":"Muon conversion overview","conference_title":"Muon Physics 2027","type":"conference","status":"active"}'
.EE
.RE
.PP
Preview a request without sending it:
.PP
.RS
.EX
\&./scripts/api-post.sh --resource conferences --token mu2e_... \\
  --data '{"title":"Dry Run"}' --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B scripts/api-post.sh
Shell script wrapper around
.BR curl .
.TP
.B man/api-post.1
Manual page for this command.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1)
