.TH FETCH-INSPIRE-CONFERENCES 1 "2026-06-04" "Mu2eTalks" "Mu2eTalks Scripts"
.SH NAME
fetch-inspire-conferences \- fetch upcoming conferences from INSPIRE-HEP and write a Mu2eTalks-compatible CSV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fetch-inspire-conferences
[\fB\-\-start\-date\fR \fIDATE\fR]
[\fB\-\-end\-date\fR \fIDATE\fR]
[\fB\-\-keywords\fR \fIWORDS\fR]
[\fB\-\-size\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-pages\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-sort\fR \fIKEY\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Queries the INSPIRE-HEP REST API for conferences matching the given filters
and writes a UTF-8 CSV file with columns:
.PP
.RS
.B inspire_id, title, start_date, end_date, url
.RE
.PP
This CSV can be imported directly into Mu2eTalks via the
Conferences \(-> Import CSV page, or with the Django management shell.
Existing conferences with a matching \fBinspire_id\fR are updated; new ones
are created.
.PP
If a conference record includes acronyms (e.g. DPF2026), the first acronym
is prepended to the title: \fIDPF2026: Particles and Fields Meeting\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-start\-date " DATE"
Filter by conference start date.
.br
Use \fBupcoming\fR (default) for all future conferences, or a date in
\fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR format as a lower bound.
.TP
.BI \-\-end\-date " DATE"
Upper date bound in \fBYYYY-MM-DD\fR format.
When combined with \fB\-\-start\-date\fR, the API is queried for conferences
starting within that range.
.TP
.BI \-\-keywords " WORDS"
Free-text INSPIRE search query, e.g. \fBmuon\fR or \fB"dark matter"\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-size " N"
Number of results per API page (1\(en25, default 25).
.TP
.BI \-\-pages " N"
Maximum number of pages to fetch.
0 (default) fetches all available pages.
.TP
.BI \-\-sort " KEY"
Sort order: \fBdateasc\fR (default), \fBdatedesc\fR, \fBtitleasc\fR,
\fBtitledesc\fR.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Write the CSV to \fIFILE\fR instead of standard output.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Fetch all upcoming conferences and print to stdout:
.PP
.RS
.B ./scripts/fetch-inspire-conferences
.RE
.PP
Fetch four pages of upcoming conferences and save to a file:
.PP
.RS
.B ./scripts/fetch-inspire-conferences --pages 4 -o conferences.csv
.RE
.PP
Fetch conferences from a specific date range:
.PP
.RS
.B ./scripts/fetch-inspire-conferences --start-date 2026-06-01 --end-date 2026-12-31 -o h2-2026.csv
.RE
.PP
Search for muon-related conferences:
.PP
.RS
.B ./scripts/fetch-inspire-conferences --keywords muon --pages 2 -o muon-conferences.csv
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.TS
l l.
Column	Description
inspire_id	Numeric INSPIRE-HEP conference identifier
title	Conference title, optionally prefixed with the first acronym
start_date	Opening date (YYYY-MM-DD), may be blank
end_date	Closing date (YYYY-MM-DD), may be blank
url	Primary conference URL, may be blank
.TE
.SH NOTES
The INSPIRE-HEP API is rate-limited.
The script waits 0.5 seconds between pages and retries up to three times
on HTTP 429 responses.
.PP
The script requires no external dependencies beyond the Python standard
library and can be run without activating the project virtual environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bootstrap (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Mu2eTalks project contributors.
